#Attributes

An attribute is a specification describing the property of an object. For example we may have a `Thing` `class` which contains a `public String name;` property. Here the attribute is a `String` called `name` that we attribute to an instance of a `Thing` object.


#Tuples

A tuple is an ordered list of elements. For example, in a database we may have a `Thing` table. Its attributes are defined as its columns: `name`, `colour`, `smell`, `shape`. 

An row in the `Thing` table could be describes as a tuple: `(England, Mostly Green, Tea and Disapointment, Kind-of-like-a-boot)`. An ordered list of elements which in this instance, describe a `Thing`.


#Relations

A relation is a set of tuples that are part of a specific data domain. 

Back to the `Thing` table, we have a data domain described by the columns: `name`, `colour`, `smell`, `shape`. A relation would be lots of tuples in this table (i.e. a set of tuples), e.g.


- `(England, Mostly Green, Tea and Disapointment, Kind-of-like-a-boot)`
- `(Apple, Red, Fruity, Round)`
- `(Person, Pink, Sweat, Generally Tubular)`


[This diagram](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relation_(database)#mediaviewer/File:Relational_database_terms.svg) was really helpful for me to visualise how these concepts apply to relational database design.


###Relation Variables

A relational variable is a relation that changes over time. E.g. in a database we have a `User` table. At time T1, there are rows in the `User` table (2 tuples in the `User` relation), however at time T2 more have been added (there are now 3 tuples in the `User` relation). `User` has a relation value but is a variable (relation variable).

###Body and Heading

A relation's _body_ contains the relation's set of tuples and the relation's _heading_ contains a set of attributes that the tuples conform to. The number of attributes in a _heading_ is its _degree_ and the number of tuples in a _body_ is its _cardinality_.

A _degree_ of a _heading_ can be a nonnegative integer:

- Degree 1: unary
- Degree 2: binary
- Degree 3: ternary
- Degree n: n-ary


#Formal Definitions

- Heading __H__ is a set of attribute names
- A __tuple with heading H__ is a set of ordered pairs _<A,v>_, one such pair for each attribute name _A_ in _H_, where _v_ is a value.
- 

