#Candidate Key

- A candidate key is a set of attributes that are unique such that every tuple in a relation has a unique set of values for each of its candidate keys. 
- The set of attributes that make up a candidate key may contain only 1 attribute.
- There can be multiple candidate keys for tuples in a relation.

Here are a few examples covering different cases of candidate keys…

###Example 1: Single Candidate Key as a Single Attribute

This example demonstrates a relation with a single candidate key. This candidate key is a set of just 1 attrbiute.

- We have a `User` domain
- A `User` has the following attributes: `email`, `first_name`, `last_name`
- `email` uniquely identifies the user
- `email` is the candidate key

###Example 2: Multiple Candidate Keys as Single Attrbiutes

This example demonstrates a relation with 2 candidate keys. These candidate keys are sets that contain just 1 attribute.

- We have a `User` domain
- A `User` has the following attributes: `email`, `username`, `first_name`, `last_name`
- `email` uniquely identifies a user
- `username` also uniquely identifies the user
- The relation has 2 separate candidate keys: `email` and `username`


###Example 3: Single Candidate Key as Multiple Attributes

This example demonstrates a relation with 1 candidate key. The candidate key is a set of 2 attributes that together are a unique pair that identify the relation.

- We have a `User` domain
- A `User` has the following attributes: `first_name`, `last_name`, `date_of_birth`, `telephone`
- In this application, the requirement is that only users with different names will sign up (a bit weird but hey..)
- A combination of `first_name` and `last_name` uniquely identifies a user
- `first_name, last_name` is the only candidate key



#Primary Key

The primary key is a candidate key that's been singled out and treated specially. Usually, if a relation has one candiate key then its designated as the primary key. If the relation has multiple candidate keys, the decision as to which one is the primary key based on which ever makes sense to the designer (one could argue that this decision is essentially arbirary).


#Composite and Simple Keys

If a key is a set of 2 or more attributes then it is said to be 'composite'. A key that consists of only 1 attribute may be refered to as 'simple'.


#Foreign Key

A set of attributes in a relation that are required to be equal to a key in another relation.


#Key Constraint

I found it helpful to go over the actual definition of a _key constraint_. A _key constraint_ is a constraint emposed by a candidate key such that no 2 tuples in a relation may have the same value for that key.

#Properties of a Candidate Key

Take _K_ as a subset of the heading of relation _R_. _K_ is a candidate if it posses the following properties:

- Uniqueness: no valid value for _R_ contains 2 or more distinct tuples with the same value for _K_
- Irreducibility: no proper subset of _K_ has the uniqueness property


#Other Terms


- A _key attribute_ or _prime attribute_ is an attribute that is part of at least one key of revlar _R_

- A _nonkey attribute_ or _nonprime attribute_ is an attribute that is not part of at least one key of revlar _R_

- A revlar is _all key_ if the entire heading is a key (the only key)

- A _superkey_ is a subset of the heading of relvar _R_ if it possesses the uniqueness property. That is, a subset of the the heading of _R_ that is unique but not necessarily irreducible. Note that a superkey that isn't a key (as opposed to, for example, a superkey which also happened to be a key) is sometimes called a _proper superkey_

- A _subkey_ is a subset of at least one key of relvar _R_. Similar to superkeys, a subkey that isn't a key is sometimes referred to as a _proper subkey_.