#Functional Dependencies

A functional dependency can be expressed as a constraint in a relation R whereby if 2 given tuples U and T have an equal set of attributes A, then another set of attributes B must also be equal for both U and T.

	if U[A1… An] = T[A1… An] then U[B1… Bn] = T[B1… Bn]
	
or

	[A1… An] → [B1… Bn]

In tutorial D (given that `A` and `B` attributes in relation `R`), a constraint for a functional dependency can be expressed like:

	CONSTRAINT functional_dependency COUNT( R{ A } ) = COUNT( R{ A, B } ) ;

This says that the cardinallity for `A` values across all tuples in `R` is equal to the cardinallity for all `A` and `B` values across all tuples in `R`. I.e. if `A` and `B` were substitued for specific values, the number of times `A` occurs in the body of the relation will be equal to the number of times `A, B` occures in the body of the relation - it is guarenteed that they are functionaly dependent. 

Another way of expressing this constraint in Tutorial D may be:

	CONSTRAINT functional_dependency
		WITH( prj = R{ A, B } )
		AND( JOIN( prj, prj RENAME( B, x ) ), B = x ) ;


Here's a breakdown of this constraint:

- `WITH( prj = R{ A, B } )` - this creates a name `prj` for the projection of `A, B` of relation `R`. This is so that we don't have to write `R{ A, B }` everywhere. Proceeding instances of `prj` expand to `R{ A, B }`.
- `prj RENAME( B, x ) ` - here we define a project for relation `R` as `R { A, B }`, yet `B` is renamed as `x`. 
- `JOIN( prj, prj RENAME( B, x ) )` - joins the 2 projections of `R`. I.e. combine `R{ A, B }` with `R{ A, x }` where the common column `A` is equal.
- `AND( <the join>, B = x )` - yields true for every tuple in the result returned but the join that have the same `B` and `x` values

Consider an example relvar called `User`:

	VAR User BASE RELATION
		{ name CHAR, address_line_1 CHAR, postcode CHAR }
		KEY { name } ;

This has a `name` (which is the candidate key), an `address_line_1` and a `postcode`. 

In this relvar such as in the real world, postcodes should be unique for every address, so there is a functional dependency between the user's `address_line_1` and their `postcode`. 

If, for example, we had 4 tuples in the relation: 

	(Some Guy, London, EC2 4WS), 
	(Steve Fortune, The Old Star, GL6 0NN), 
	(Doge, Such TOwn, PL5 5TAP), 
	(Ben Wood, His House, GL6 0NN) 
	
the data is clearly invalid because we have 2 separate `address_line_1` s defined for a given `postcode` `GL6 0NN`. Lets apply the predicate given in the constraint above to the example:

	CONSTRAINT address_dependency
		WITH( prj = R{ postcode, address_line_1 } )
		AND( JOIN( prj, prj RENAME( address_line_1, x ) ), address_line_1 = x ) ;

We would be `JOIN`ing the following 2 relations, formed by projections of the `User` relation:

- `R{ postcode, address_line_1 }`, aka `prj`

		(EC2 4WS, 		London), 
		(GL6 0NN,		The Old Star), 
		(PL5 5TAP,		Such Town), 
		(GL6 0NN, 		His House) 

- `prj RENAME( address_line_1, x )`

		(EC2 4WS, 		London), 
		(GL6 0NN, 		The Old Star), 
		(PL5 5TAP, 		Such Town), 
		(GL6 0NN,		His House) 


Which would yield the following results:

	{postcode, 		address_line_1, 			x}
	(EC2 4WS, 		London,				   London),
	(GL6 0NN, 		The Old Star,	 The Old Star),
	(GL6 0NN, 		The Old Star,	 	His House), <--- address_line_1 != x
	(PL5 5TAP, 		Such Town,			Such Town),
	(GL6 0NN,		His House,		 The Old Star), <--- address_line_1 != x
	(GL6 0NN,		His House,		 	His House)

So this relation would not satify the `address_dependency` constraint. There is a functional dependecy between `postcode` and `address_line_1` that results in invalid data - the design is 'bad' as it results in redundancy.

###Projections

	R{ A, B } 

The equivillent of picking a subset of `R`'s attributes and excluding all other attributes from the relation. It can loosely be described as an operator for decomposition

###JOIN

The `JOIN` operator in Tutorial D is equvillent to `INNER NATURAL JOIN` in SQL. See [here](http://www.dcs.warwick.ac.uk/~hugh/CS252/CS252-TD-to-SQL.pdf). It can loosely be described as an operator for recomposition.


###Determinant and Dependant

For relvar `R`

	X → Y


- The _determinant_ is `X`

- The _dependant_ is `Y`


As `X` and `Y` are subsets of the heading of `R`, the following also holds...

	X+ → Y-

where `X+` represents all supersets of `X` (provided that they are subsets of `R`'s heading) and `Y-` represents all subsets of `Y`.

##References

- [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jwNv1-b0tJs) was extremely helpful in breaking down what a functional dependency is and the predicate logic behind it.
- [Wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Projection_(relational_algebra)) has a pretty good explanation of what a projection is.