#Normal Form Heirarchy


These are the normal forms that I will be covering first:

	1NF
	2NF
	3NF
	BCNF
	4NF
	5NF
	
The higher the level of normalisation, the less update anomalies can occur.

A relvar can be the _nth_ normal form but not in the _(n + 1)st (n = 1, …, 4)_ normal form. I.e. the normal forms are heirarchical: a relvar must be in 1NF to be in 2NF, etc. Saying that a relvar in in 3NF for example, does not necessarily mean that it is in 4NF as well.

If a relvar is in the _nth_ normal form it can always be decomposed via projection (in a nonless way) such that:

- The projected relvars are in the _(n + 1)st_ normal form 

- The the original relvar equals the JOIN of those projected relations (i.e. the projected _(n + 1)st_ NF relations can always be recomposed via JOIN to be in _nth_ normal form)

A 5NF relation is always achieveable. That is, any relation can be decomposed into 5NF projections,



###Constraints

Nonloss decomposition usually results in new constraints that need to be maintained. For example, take the following relation:

	VAR user BASE RELATION
		{ username CHAR, first_name CHAR, last_name CHAR, postcode CHAR, address_line_1 CHAR, address_line_2 CHAR },
		KEY { username };
	
And that `{postcode} → {address_line_1, address_line_2}`.

We can decompose this relations to eliminate this functional dependency:

	VAR user BASE RELATION
		{ username CHAR, first_name CHAR, last_name CHAR, postcode CHAR },
		KEY { username };
		
	VAR address BASE RELATION
		{ postcode CHAR, address_line_1 CHAR, address_line_2 CHAR }
		KEY { postcode };
	
The functional dependency is eliminated however there may still need to be a _multirelvar_ constraint imposed to maintain the data:

- An __equality constraint__ is required if every `postcode` in the `address` relation must appear in the `user` relation and every `postcode` that appears in the `user` relation must appear in the `address` relation. 

		CONSTRAINT equality_constraint user { postcode } = address { postcode };

- A __foreign key constraint__ is required if `user` cannot contain a tuple that has no counterpart in `address`, but `address` can contain a tuple with no counterpart in `user`. E.g. we may have `(GL6 0NN, The Old Star, Nailsworth)` in `address` but no `user` tuple with the `GL6 0NN` postcode. Conversly, a `user` tuple may not contain a `postcode` value of `EC2 8GG` without there being a tuple in `address` with that `postcode`

		FOREIGN KEY { postcode } REFERNCES address


There may even not be a requirement for a constraint (i.e. `user` relation can contain tuples with `postcode`s that don't reference `address`, and `address` relation can contain tuples with `postcode`s that don't reference `user`).

